---
layout: default
title: Filter API
---


h2. Feature Search and Paging

Get a list of Features for a dataset

_*API URL*_
 /datasets/:id/features.:format

_*HTTP Method*_
  GET

_*Formats*_
  json
  
_*Parameters*_

* limit - (optional) number of features to return (default 30)
* order - (optional) 'ascending' or 'descending' of the sort attribute (default ascending)
* sort - (optional) attribute name to sort by (default primary key of dataset from creation )
* start - (optional) index to start with. 1 would be the first.
* _json_ callback - (optional) callback method to wrap the response in
* bbox - (optional) WSEN bounding box to get the features contained within the box
* lon, lat, radius - (optional) - lat, lon of a point and radius distance in kilometers from that point to get the features contained within it.
* points, radius - (optional) several lon,lat i.e. points=-82.833,35.538,-82.253,35.502,-77.014,34.829 that will be buffered to the given radius (in kms) and fe
* polygon - (optional) like bbox, gets features within a custom bounding box, in lon lat pairs
* line, radius - (optional) gets features within the buffer defined by the radius in kms, and the line in lon lat pairs
** NOTE for radius parameters, units are in kilometers, but units change according to latitude. We use 111km = 1 degree. If no radius is given, it defaults to 10
* with_columns - (optional) used in the overlay review views upon first uploading an overlay
* aggregate - (optional)

_*Respone*_
  200 OK
  JSON hash { features: [ ... array of features ... ], page: PageNumber, total: AvailableFeatures, start: StartIndex}

_*Error*_ 
  Server Error, 500·


h2. Dataset Filters

Datasets can be filtered when requested from the server. This is done by calling the @dataset/:id/features/@ with the optional @filter=@ paramter. The filter parameter can include a filter for any attribute name, and an array of filter conditions. Filter names must be URI encoded.

_*Example*_

To find all features with "financing amt" between 100 and 120:

  /dataset/21/features?filter[financing_amt][][min]=100&filter[financing_amt][][max]=120&

Possible operators include:

* min
* max
* equals


h2. Visualization Filters

h2. Basics

Filtering a dataset uses an mathematic syntax, using operators and operators.

Syntax:
<pre>
{ filters: [ { expression: "$[attribute] operator value" } ] }
</pre>

The operators you may use to evaluate expressions are:
<, >, ==, <=, >=

Logical operators:
AND, OR

Grouping operators:
(, )

For example:
I want all the starbucks that sell (inclusively) between 10,000 and 50,000 cups yearly, where the median income is below $50,000, is franchised:
<pre>
{ filters: [ { expression: "$[sales] >= 10000 AND $[sales] <= 50000 AND $[income] < 50000 AND $[franchised] == true" } ] }
</pre>

Example with parentheses and OR operators:
<pre>
{ filters: [ { expression: "($[sales] <= 10000 OR $[sales] > 50000) AND ($[income] < 50000 AND $[franchised] == 'true') AND $[business] == 'starbucks'" } ] }
</pre>

Multiple filters will all be run independently, so inherently executed with an AND logical operator.

h2. Javascript API

You may use the following methods to add, remove, list, and clear filters.
In the following examples, overlayId can be either the GeoIQ overlay ID, or the 0-based layer index on the map. (For example, the first layer in a map would be id 0)

*addFilter(overlayId, filter)* - Adds a filter to the filters list on an overlay
<pre>F1.Maker.current_map.addFilter(0, { expression: "$[sales] > 1000" });</pre>

*removeFilter(overlayId, filter)* - Removes a filter from the filters list on an overlay
<pre>F1.Maker.current_map.removeFilter(0, { expression: "$[sales] > 1000" });</pre>

*getFilters(overlayId)* - List all filters for an overlay
<pre>F1.Maker.current_map.getFilters(0);</pre>

*clearFilters(overlayId)* - Remove all custom filters from an overlay
<pre>F1.Maker.current_map.clearFilters(0);</pre>

h2. Creating a Filtered Map

To create a map with filters on an overlay, or add an overlay with filters to a map, follow the instructions on the [[Visualization_API]], but add the 'filters' section for each overlay on which you would like a filter, like so:

<pre>
{   
	"title": "State Population",
	"tags": ["demographics","US"],
	"description": "A map showing the US state population in 2005.",
	"layers": [{
		"source": "finder:968",
		"visible": true,
		"opacity": 1.0,
		"title": "Population by State",
		"subtitle": "2005",
		"filters": [ { expression: "$[population] < 5000000 or $[population] > 10000000" } ],
		"styles": {
			"type": "GRADUATED",
			"icon": {
				"opacity": 0.75,
				"size": 1,
				"symbol": "propCircle",
				"classificationType": "St Dev",
				"selectedAttribute": "pop 2005",
				"categories": 5,
				"color": "0x74479a" 
			}
		}
	}],
	"extent": "-163.370225180872,13.3953456046146,-52.1006976720957,61.8070605914375",
	"basemap": "OpenStreetMap (Road)" 
}
</pre>



h3. addLayerCategoryFilter()

Sets layer categorical icons based on the string value of an attribute. This is useful for setting the icons of a the features in a dataset based on categories such as land use or business type.

_*Method*_
addLayerCategoryFilter(layerID, categoryDefinition)

_*Scope*_
 F1.Maker.Map

_*Arguments*_

* *layerID* (_required_) Layer index (_integer_)
* *categoryDefinition* (_required_) a hash of definiing the attribute and categories
** *attribute* (_required_) the string name of the attribute to them based on category
** *categories* (_required_) a hash of Category (_string_) with Icon URL (_string_)

_*Example*_

<pre><code class="javascript">mymap.addLayerCategoryFilter(0,{attribute:"Operation Sector",categories:{"Health":"image1.jpg","Water and Infrastructure:"image2.jpg"}})</code></pre>


h3. addLayerInfoWindowFilter()

Defines InfoWindow content. Sets content filters based on layer attributes. 

_*Method*_
addLayerInfoWindowFilter(layerID, filterDefinition)

_*Scope*_
 F1.Maker.Map

_*Arguments*_

* *layerID* (_required_) Layer index (_integer_)
* *filterDefinition* (_required_) a hash of defining info window parameters
** *title* (_optional_) a string defining info window title. Use $[attribute] to pass attribute value
** *subtitle* (_optional_) a string defining info window sub itle. Use $[attribute] to pass attribute value
** *tabs* (_optional_) a hash defining tabs - title, content.
*** *title* (_required_) string, tab title. Use $[attribute] to pass attribute value.
*** *value* (_required_) string, tab content. Use $[attribute] to pass attribute value. When populating a table simple pass attribute names $[attribute1]$[attribute2]$[attribute3] etc.
*** *type* (_required_) string, tab type. Available types - text, table.


_*Example*_

<pre><code class="javascript">mymap.addLayerInfoWindowFilter('0',{title:"Title is $[attribute]", subtitle:"Subtitle string", tabs:[{title:"Text tab", type:"text", value:"Hello world $[attribute]"},{title:"Table tab", value:"$[attribute]", type:"table"}]})</code></pre>
