---
layout: default
title: JavaScript Interface Styling
---

The Javascript API provides interfaces for setting the look and feel of the map elements such as the zoom bar and legend.

h3. setStyle()

Sets the style of control elements in the map such as the zoom and legend. Options include the position, size, layout, color, transparency, and more.

*Method:*
 setStyle(style object);

*Scope:*
 F1.Maker.Map

*Required Arguments:*

|_. Argument |_. Description|_. Example |
|style object|an object with optional settings for zoom or legend controls| { zoom: {bgColor: 0x92948C, autoHeight: false, height:100, cornerRadius: 5}} |

*Optional Arguments:* 

Within the @style object@ there are several optional elements: @legend@, @zoom@. Each of these has numerous optional attributes to set specific style parameters.

h4. Legend

* bgColor (_optional) uint - Legend background color.
* bgAlpha (_optional) Number - Background alpha.
* fontColor (_optional) uint - Legend font color. Default 0xFFFFFF
* fontFace (optional) String - Legend font. Default _sans
* fontSize (_optional) Number - Legend font size. Default 12.
* btnPlacement (optional) String - Button placement "horizontal" or "vertical". Default "horizontal".
* btnBgColor (optional) uint - Background color of the legend button.
* btnBgAlpha (optional) Number - Legend button background alpha.
* btnFontFace (optional) String - Legend button font.
* btnFontColor (optional) uint - Legend button color. Default 0xFFFFFF
* btnFontSize (optional) Number - Legend button font size.
* btnLabel (optional) String - Legend button label. Default value "Legend".
* btnWidth (optional) Number - Legend button width.
* btnHeight (optional) Number - Legend button height.
* offset (optional) object - defines the distance from the bottom right corner on x and y axis. For example, {x:20,y:0} will move the legend 20 pixels left from the right corner of the stage.
** x (required) Number - offset of x axis
** y (required) Number - offset of y axis
* width (optional) Number - Legend (content) width.
* visible (_optional) Boolean - Legend visibility.
* expanded (optional) Boolean - When set to true the legend is expanded.
  

h4. Zoom

* autoHeight (optional) : Boolean - When set to true zoom control height changes based on the number of available zoom levels. Use zoomStepHeight parameter to further adjust zoom control height.
* bgAlpha (optional) : Number - Background color of zoom control elements. Range: 0-1.
* bgColor (optional) : uint - Background opacity of zoom control elements. Use hex 0xFFFFFF format.
* borderColor (optional) : uint - Control border. Use hex 0xFFFFFF format.
* dropShadow (optional) : Boolean - Drop shadow.
* enabled (optional) : Boolean - Disable / Enable zoom control.
* expanded (optional) : Boolean - When set to true the control is expanded.
* iconColor (optional) : uint - Zoom icon (+)(-) color. Use hex 0xFFFFFF format.
* offset (optional) : Point - Offset of x and y axis from the top left corner. In JS use {x:3,y:5}.
* padding (optional) : Number - Padding between zoom bar elements.
* snapToZoomLevel (optional) : Boolean - When set to true slider snaps to a zoom level.
* width (optional) : Number - Width of the scroll track. Width is used to determine size of +- icons.
* height (optional) : Number - Scroll track height. Use this only when autoHeight is set to false.
* alpha (optional) : Number - Overall opacity of the control. Range: 0-1.
* offset (optional) object - defines the distance from the bottom right corner on x and y axis. For example, offset: {x:20,y:0} will move the legend 20 pixels left from the right corner of the stage.
** x (optional) : Number - Position of the control on x axis.
** y (optional) :Number - Position of the control on y axis.
* zoom (optional) : int - Current zoom level.
* zoomStepHeight (optional) : Number - Works only if autoHeight set to true.
* horizontal (optional) : Boolean - Moves (-) button to the right of (+) button. Overrides expanded parameter and sets it to false.
* cornerRadius (optional) : Number - Sets corner radius for zoom control.


*Returns:* (none)

*Examples:*

<pre><code class="javascript">      mymap.setStyle( { zoom: {bgColor: 0x92948C, autoHeight: false, height:100, cornerRadius: 5}})
      mymap.setStyle( { legend: { btnBgColor:0x92948C, btnPlacement:"horizontal", btnFontColor:0xFFFFFF, btnBgAlpha:0.7,offset:{x:0,y:95}}});      
</code></pre>

<pre><code class="javascript">// Zoom
  sample_map.setStyle({zoom: {visible: true }});
  sample_map.setStyle({zoom: {visible: false }});

  // Legend
  setStyle({legend:{visible:false})
  setStyle({legend:{expanded:false, visible:true})
  setStyle({legend:{expanded:true, visible:true});</code></pre>
